the older i get i'm just a puss man i
need a man up i used to be so aggressive
you're a big dude you're strong
that's why nobody messes with me oh yeah
what it's like it's like like like you
you like fight and all that stuff i
can't even like if somebody punched me
in the face today i don't know how would
react like i don't know i used to be a
bouncer at clubs i play college football
like i was a tough dude now after all
apart I could get you a gym no no I'm in
shape but I mean like a fight gym no no
I'd know I'm gonna fight a little bit no
not to fight people why are you so you
don't worry about it I never worry about
it okay well then don't worry about cuz
I'm at home I saw you at the improv the
other night nobody's gonna jump on stage
I'm talking about family oh man you
never know people crazy
has anyone jumped up on the WWF and
attacked who did he attack
he attacked Brett hiring is like speech
that's crazy yeah always gotta be like
how old is you know makes do you want
any joke survivor so fucked up when the
guy tackled them yeah Jesus quick but
Joe seriously you think anybody's gonna
jump on stage when you're on some dude
and could ease it you would fucking kill
him no there's there's a lot of people
they can kill me you don't get but I I I
just don't see me doing stand-up talking
about family of love and a dude guys I
hate family I love I'm a jumper it's
that it's not rational no yeah right a
rational person wouldn't do that but
you're not worried about rational people
anyway okay so so say I started to go to
a fight gym like where would I start at
my mom what I do I would say you should
try jiu-jitsu cuz it's fun it's really
good exercise and you'll learn some
stuff okay
you learn how to do it it's it's a
technique based art whereas like say if
if you like there's there's guys that I
will do Jiu Jitsu sparring we call
rolling okay there's guys that I will
roll with that are weaker than me
smaller than me and tapped me every time
I roll with them and I'm a black belt
okay like that's reality like if there's
there's guys out there that 150 pounds
so that I could roll with that I know
will tap me virtually every time we roll
because their technique is sharper they
train more often
I am they're more focused they're more
in the groove but I also heard you say
like one of your podcasts you've got to
watch out who you train with because
they might just try to hurt you that's
true I need I need you got to go to a
good school with good ethics because
yeah a good school with good ethics they
get rid of those guys do you know do you
no one in Studio City I'll do sure I'll
get ya know do it I want to learn
there's a good spot just a little
further than that in Tarzana ok
Machado's where i got my black belt
so John Jacques Machado I trained there
sometimes and he used to have a place in
Malibu but it closed down because of the
fires but they they have an outstanding
gym it's like one of the best in the
country and it's in that area like as
far as teaching yeah top-notch like but
there's a lot of really good jiu-jitsu
schools now it's not like like when I
started in 96 it was hard to find a good
gym there was only like 5 of them in all
of California right because it was just
starting out I was like 93 is when
jiu-jitsu sort of emerged in the public
consciousness because the UFC and then
they were gym started like popping
popping up but I was really lucky there
was like Hicks and Gracie's which is
where I took my first class and then
Karlsson Gracie's I thought they were
like the same and the other one was
closer so I just switched to Carlson's I
didn't know shit you knows wipeout but
and then there was a Machado's and then
like a couple other places how long did
it take you to get to a black belt like
four years some guy took me a long time
I was a brown belt for eight years but
it was just because I wasn't training as
much as I should have liked that you
don't they don't give them away like you
have to be a real black belt but besides
what is somebody just watch instructors
yeah and you do well no okay well
everyone knows it's like like you know
when a guy is fucking killing like like
he let's take like Theo von for example
like Theo I love him
he hit a groove some time ago whether
it's two years ago or whatever it was
and I remember being in the back of the
store and I was like dude this
motherfuckers on fire yeah he started
hittin that groove that where you go and
sit down you want to watch his set ya
know and I think when that happens in
jiu-jitsu it's the same kind of thing I
start talking about like - Mike has been
tapping everybody but he's just his
jiu-jitsu so sharp and you're like man
I'm gonna watch him roll and then you
watch them all like - that
a Sat card pass then guys start asking
like wait how about offer you training
I'm going five days a week now really
yeah and I'm taking to private spa then
you know like this guy is on the quest
and you'll see a guy go from white belt
to black belt in three years but they
have to be super exceptional like really
unusual athletes unusual mindset unusual
discipline it can happen most of the
time like a garden-variety estimate is
like 10 years is realistic white belt a
black belt for a regular person if you
really train hard and you really
dedicate yourself but freaks can get
there quicker like BJ Penn he won the
mundi Isles which is the World
Championships after three years of
training three years of training he was
a black belt won the world shall be
doing that to bj's a special guy though
I just also got legs that are like arms
he has leg dexterity like no one on the
planet yeah I got chicken legs oh yeah
that's actually good is it really yeah
you could cinch up triangles on people
with chicken legs
people everywhere there just think about
it in terms of leverage guys with longer
limbs like Roger Gracie is a perfect
example he's a really tall long guy so
when the best jujitsu players ever they
can do things with those limbs that a
shorter person can't do in terms of like
leverage from joints and stuff like this
like there's the advantages to every
frame like there's a guy like who Samar
Paul Hara is a famous like tank of a
guys five seven two hundred plus pounds
and just rips guy's legs apart and he
uses this like short style to dive in on
people's legs and get him in heel hooks
and bars and rip their legs parties
terrifying yeah and that that style
heavily favors being built like a little
little tank
whereas like that long like you are
you're a tall long guy you would have
like good Darce chokes good rear-naked
good or good arm bars good triangles you
would have lengthened leverage with that
length especially with triangles because
long-legged guys they can like sometimes
a guy like me with short legs like I'll
get my legs crossed yeah and I have to
adjust a lot to be able to cinch up by
triangle whereas you might be able to
just close the
right there so you have like more
opportunities for triangles because the
length of your limbs have you would you
have ever been at a point in your in
your career when you were doing to just
where you how would you have been in the
UFC like at your prime like I have no
idea I have no idea I would have had to
have gotten way better like when I was
fighting I was just kickboxing yeah I
was kickboxing and first of all first it
was Taekwondo and then went to
kickboxing and by the time the UFC came
around like on the ground I was useless
or there's a straight white belt I would
get ripped apart every day I would go to
the gym and if I if I tapped anybody
like if it was like a a week went by and
I tapped one guy black oh I fucking
tapped a guy yeah there wasn't that many
people doing it you know so I was going
with like there was a couple of white
belts maybe and then there was like blue
belts and purple belts and brown belts
and those guys would always tap me guys
so that's just how went for a long time
when you are you know unless you're some
kind of freak like some big-ass football
player or some like super athlete you're
probably not gonna be able to hold these
guys off they're gonna they're gonna
choke you now was it true you're gonna
fight Wesley Snipes that was way later
though way late that was a brown belt by
then and I've been doing a lot toward
you beating him
I don't know cuz we never did everybody
there's a real martial artist I was real
martial arts but he doesn't know
jiu-jitsu the thing that must have been
exciting though fucking excited yeah
because I was thinking like I knew that
he was a real legitimate martial artist
like he throws kicks and punches and it
looks really good like he really does
know his shit but I also know he never
fought and there's a big difference
between throwing kicks and I know and I
haven't fought in a long time but I
probably fought a hundred times yeah so
i I've been I've felt that nerves I know
what that's like it'll be crazy as fuck
to do it again that's what I was
thinking I mean it'll probably scare the
shit out of me but I think I know what
to do I think I know how to like get in
there and start fainting and start
giving some movement see how he reacts
and then the worst case scenario is like
I'm like in a scramble I'm gonna
strangle this guy like this
this comes to a scramble yeah because
the average person really doesn't know
how helpless they are until a jiu-jitsu
blackbelt grabs ahold of you and then
you just go oh shit like I'm helpless
because in a fight you really think like
you might be able to punch a guy like
maybe if he's friend me and he's
swinging at me and I'm swinging at him
maybe I hit him first you really think
that but there's no swinging if it's a
jiu-jitsu fight if you guys get into
some sort of a tussle and that guy grabs
you and trips you and boom and he's on
the ground with his hand on your jacket
and knee on your chest you're a dead man
you're a dead man because there's no
lucky shot yeah a jiu-jitsu blackbelt is
just gonna close the distance like that
evil fucking crab and he's just gonna
fucking and there's no way you're gonna
avoid it and there's no way you're gonna
survive it you're just not going to
that's why you don't fight people like
people I'm just
you can't fight random people on the
streets like when you're young that was
the thing you could go to bars yeah feel
like I had some friends that like to
throw down when I was younger and I
wouldn't do I was watching but good be
now it's kind of like you got to watch
everybody because you don't know what
kind of training they're doing like
everybody so educated on and it's so big
right now well some guy fought off a guy
in the subway that was attacking with a
knife with some moves that he learned
watching the UFC never even trained
before he just knew what to do yeah he
like knew what to do because he had seen
guys like get the mount and drop
ground-and-pound he'd like knew what to
do based on watching it yeah I think
it's good like when you mention it I
think it's good just to learn so you
would feel better about yourself in case
danger comes yeah you want to be the
person that gets to make the decision
here's the thing right if you don't know
how to fight and there's some drunk
asshole who doesn't know how to fight
either but he might come over and punch
you in the face and some to punch you
and he can hurt you
or knock you out in front of your woman
you want to be the one who gets to
decide yeah if I'm in a situation and
some guy and he's like reasonably close
to my size and he's being an asshole
he's drunk and he gets aggressive with
me I can decide what to do with him
mm-hmm like I can it gets I don't want
to hurt anybody but I'm not gonna let
you hurt me yeah
you get to decide like you don't want
like you've we've all seen these
7-eleven fucking parking lot lights on
YouTube or some asshole and both of them
don't know how to fight but one guy
might fuck that guy up he might kick him
in the face while he's down you don't
want to be that guy yeah but you don't
want to be in that situation definitely
walk away whenever you can always